# Vue Core Team Panel

March 27th, 2018

Speakers: - Evan You - Chris Fritz - Divya Sasidharan - Sarah Drasner

## Question & Answers

1.  What's the continued vision of server side rendering with Vue.js?
    *   Evan: We want to have clear separation of layers of functionality. Regarding server side rendering out of the box, it is low leve compared to Nuxt. The thing that Nuxt does is great in the sense that it is opinionated and use the file system as your routing system. Nuxt is also flexible in its own right. We are intentionally leaving SSR in vue-cli-3 because Nuxt exists and is doing a great job. It's possible to build a plugin at some point, but we want to make sure that the community has one good choice. I was actually talking to Alex Sebastian about sharing overlapping parts between Nuxt and vue-cli and there is definitely possibility there. We just want to make sure that there i s no wasted effort in providing the same functionality.
2.  In v2.2, you removed the implicit support for v-model modifier for the explicit declaration of modifiers. Is there intent to put that back into the framework? You used to be able to tap into things like v.model.lazy, but it was removed.
    *   Evan: Maybe we removed it because it wasn't part of the API? I can't remember why I removed it. It's possibility that I removed it intentionally and it was a side effect of refactoring. So let's talk later regarding this specifically.
3.  I used to develop in React, one of the things I liked is functional components, is there any technical reasons why it can't be the same?
    *   Evan: Yes, because we already use the plain function for async. If we allow users do it, we don't know if it's actually a promise or a function that returns a Virtual DOM. I personally want to consider changing it in v3.0, because a function that returns a virtual DOM and would be very convenient.
4.  Do any of you remember your first open sourced pull request?
    *   Evan: I don't.
    *   Chris: I don't exactly remember, but I think I have some vague memory of opening up a PR before I opened an issue and had an idea of how the code should go. It was really big and they just closed it and I was disheartened. I should communicated with them more.
    *   Divya: I remember the one I was most excited about. I used DuckDuckGo and wanted to contribute to the front-end. Poured through the docs and tried to do a PR, I built it and it got merged and it was really exciting. I screenshot it to everyone I knew even if they had no idea
    *   Sarah: One that got me really excited is one called frontend-handbook and I submitted a PR to make one of their sections more verbose and have more details. I didn't hear back about the PR for a really long time. "Oh man... they hate it." I started to obsessively check, but then they responded with the fact they had to rewrite a bunch of sections. It went from like "this is the worst PR ever" to this is fun!
    *   Chris: My first PR to the Vue is something I remember. I'm not even sure I made a PR before completely rewriting it for Vue 2.0. We can certainly find out later. This is what version control is for.
5.  What is missing that the Vue community or the core team needs for getting more people into the project?
    *   Evan: Umm.. pain points... I can speak from the perspective from the experience of going to meetups and conferences. I often get asked "I want to contribute but I don't know how to get started." We do have a contributing guide, it's a little technical. We can do better in that too, but I think that a lot of times I have to tell people that contributing is not something that can be measured. For example, all one member does is answer people's questions on the forums and helps them figure out what is wrong in the code. While he might not work a lot on the code base, he is doing so much for everyone else and a great way of contributing. So for us, I'm eager to see people contribute to code and community outreach. We can try to outline the ways to contribute and lowering the barriers.
    *   Chris: Making the source code understandable to someone who hasn't worked on it for a long time. There are still places that we can do better. Making the codebase more friendly in general. And in general, continuing to produce internal education materials about the internals of Vue. There are other some pages in the docs that we'd like to expand upon. We could go in and talk about more things
    *   Sarah: on that, I was thinking that we've talked a little bit among us about creating some sort of visualization about the internals. I kind of thought about the talk that I had given here with the directories at a bird's eye view. When they go into the core code, they go directly to core and maybe they need more instruction on where to start.
    *   Chris: Also, opening up an issue in the GitHub about something that confuses you in the docs is another way to contribute.
    *   Evan: One thing I want to add and feel confident that they can do technical improvements to the codebase, we want to make what we want to release into the framework visible to everyone. We hope to move all these "intend to implement" into RFC. It's like the TC39 implementation progress model. You can see progress, the champion, comments, etc.
    *   Sarah: One more thing on this, where might be the worse place to ask. If you think there is some need we're not feeling, please us know because sometimes we're too close to it.
6.  What do you think is missing from Vue today that you think will exist in 3 years?
    *   Evan: Three years is actually not too long. If you think about it, Vue three years ago has changed internally but the surface hasn't changed a lot. It will certainly be improved from a codebase itself. Some of it will be making incremental improvements even smaller, faster, etc. Things may not affect the end user experience, but they are meaningful work for the framework itself. One of the pretty cool things that I want to get done in the next year or so is to improve the compiler and the parser so that down to column mapping / source mapping for template compilation. So if some error happens, it gets mapped to the template that it happens it. We really hope that we can have a custom renderer API so that things like NativeScript can just build their renderer on top of it. I do not see anything fundamentally in the next three years. In the last year or two, you've seen us consolidating a lot of these principles as opposed to having fundamentally different paradigms for how you do front-end development. Some of the optimizations that could happen is that break up the codebase that targets a model system. So that when you use like the transition component, it will only be imported if it's used. It's like tree shaking down to feature level and it's something we really want to enable.
    *   Chris: Not only with the code itself, but there are so many things with the dev experience and onboarding experience that we can improve, so I hope to see that getting beter and better all the time.
7.  So Vue has a lot of international traction, are there any trends with different regions? Or also, what stereotype do other developers have about American developers?
    *   Chris: One stereotype is Silicon Valley and San Francisco bro culture in general
    *   Divya: When I tell someone from Singapore I'm a developer, they assume I'm from the Bay area. They think that being a developer in the US is the epitomy of what you can reach. It seems elite, but everyone else thinks we're nerds. At least in Southeast Asia, engineers are normal things.
    *   Sarah: It's how I feel like documentation becomes stronger becomes international people work on it. Having people from all over the place be like "I don't know what it means" when you accidentally use slang makes it a lot more easier to understand across cultures. Very appreciative of all the work that goes into it. They thought "I'm on it" is that she's on the page as opposed to "I'm doing it."
    *   Chris: I came to the US in 2004 already speaking fluent English, but I had to learn phrases like "beating the dead horse." If it wasn't on Friends or Simpsons, a lot of slang was foreign.
    *   Evan: I was born in China and came to the US for college. I'm also pretty active in the Chinese developer community. So I get both sides of it. I don't have that kind of stereotype about people, so when I talk to an American / Chinese developer, I don't treat them as X or Y. I just treat every developer as someone who is just trying to write code and make it work. I'm just trying to make Vue universally applicable to those who want to build something great. Having a multi-cultural background definitely helps with that.
8.  There has been one feature request I've been curious about, it's about having more than one root element on the template. Can you explain more on why or whether it's coming? What's the state of that?
    *   Evan: The funny thing is that Vue v1.0 supported that. It's technically possible, but the thing is that React waited for the whole algorithm rewrite to support that. The way the current Virtual DOM is written in 2.0 is built upon the assumption and thus changing it makes it a lot of work. Whenever we introduce a change, there's a risk of the amount of work along with the potential regression side effects that can arise as a result. If we compare the benefits of having the feature versus the risks, it's a little risky at the moment. The best opportunity to do this is when we are doing a major or we may experiment with that if the major is too far away. It's in the backlog, but it's not a super high priority right now
    *   Chris: Spoiler alert for tomorrow's talk. Functional components can return an array of components
9.  As tool makers, you're enabling a lot of careers. Is there anything that we can do for you?
    *   Evan: Yes! Contribution comes in many forms. Triaging an issue is really critical to having proper context. So it can take a lot of back and forth. Just by keeping an eye on the new issues coming up and talking about the issue can be very helpful. So that's a real improvement for me. Answering questions on Stack Overflow or the forums is there forever and learn about it thanks to your answer. You can organize meetups and evangelize the project.
    *   Chris: I'm happy with the involvement of people in the docs. Sometimes people get the impression that it's only a few people, but there are almost 300 people contributing to the docs.
    *   Divya: Seeing Vue in the wild is cool to see it how it's being used. The cookbook is a great way to get involved. This way you can add back and it's a two way street. In order for us to know what you want, we need that feedback loop
    *   Sarah: We are accepting PRs for recipes. So submitting and/or reviewing them is really helpful. You don't have to be an expert in everything, just so something you did in your codebase. Anything that you think might be a little unique is something you should definitely be sharing. The last thing I'll say is that Evan and Chris have Patreons and the more you donate, the more they can spend time on it.
    *   Evan: Speaking of sharing something you learned, write a blog post about things you learned or solved. You discovered a great pattern for X scenario and then it's time to share it! Teach other people! If it can be abstracted, then that's even better.
    *   Sarah: The coolest part is that you don't have to figure it again later. IF you document and put it online, you'll have it for later.

## Memorable Quotes

>

## Resources

\*
